---
title: Dynamic Client Registration (DCR) Glossary
description: Dynamic Client Registration (DCR) Glossary
exl-id: 4ce67fa5-b0e5-4967-b83d-c682426d9329
---
# Dynamic Client Registration (DCR) Glossary {#rest-api-dcr-glossary}

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
> The content on this page is provided for information purposes only. Usage of this API requires a current license from Adobe. No unauthorized use is permitted.

This document provides definitions for terms used when integrating the Adobe Pass Authentication Dynamic Client Registration (DCR).

>[!MORELIKETHIS]
> 
> * [REST API v2 Glossary](/help/authentication/integration-guide-programmers/rest-apis/rest-api-v2/rest-api-v2-glossary.md)

## Glossary Terms {#glossary-terms}

### A {#a}

#### Access Token {#access-token}

The access token is a token generated by Adobe Pass Authentication as a result of the [Dynamic Client Registration (DCR)](#dcr) process meant to ensure access to protected APIs.

### C {#c}

#### Client Credentials {#client-credentials}

The client credentials are a set of unique values that are generated during the [Dynamic Client Registration (DCR)](#dcr) process and are meant to be used to obtain an [access token](#access-token).

#### Custom Scheme {#custom-scheme}

The custom scheme is a unique value referencing a [Programmer](/help/authentication/integration-guide-programmers/rest-apis/rest-api-v2/rest-api-v2-glossary.md#programmer) application that can be generated and downloaded from Adobe Pass [TVE Dashboard](/help/authentication/integration-guide-programmers/rest-apis/rest-api-v2/rest-api-v2-glossary.md#tve-dashboard) and is meant to be used as a final redirect in applications running on iOS devices.

### D {#d}

#### DCR {#dcr}

The Dynamic Client Registration (DCR) is an authorization mechanism defined by [RFC 7591](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7591), and it is based on the OAuth 2.0 authorization framework that is described by [RFC 6749](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749).

The DCR is delivered to a [Programmer](/help/authentication/integration-guide-programmers/rest-apis/rest-api-v2/rest-api-v2-glossary.md#programmer) as an Adobe Pass Authentication service that can further enable access to protected APIs.

For more information, refer to the [Dynamic Client Registration Overview](/help/authentication/integration-guide-programmers/rest-apis/rest-api-dcr/dynamic-client-registration-overview.md) documentation.

### R {#r}

#### Registered Application {#registered-application}

The registered application is an Adobe Pass Authentication concept that stores information about the [Programmer](/help/authentication/integration-guide-programmers/rest-apis/rest-api-v2/rest-api-v2-glossary.md#programmer) application that requires to proceed with the [Dynamic Client Registration (DCR)](#dcr) process.

### S {#s}

#### Software Statement {#software-statement}

The software statement is a JSON Web Token (JWT) that can be downloaded from Adobe Pass [TVE Dashboard](/help/authentication/integration-guide-programmers/rest-apis/rest-api-v2/rest-api-v2-glossary.md#tve-dashboard) and is meant to be used as part of the [Dynamic Client Registration (DCR)](#dcr) process.
