---
title: Using Experience Cloud ID in Primetime Authentication
description: Using Experience Cloud ID in Primetime Authentication
exl-id: 03354c01-5aad-4d81-beee-1c3834599134
---
# Using Experience Cloud ID in Primetime Authentication

>[!NOTE]
>
>The content on this page is provided for information purposes only. Usage of this API requires a current license from Adobe. No unauthorized use is permitted. 

## What is Experience Cloud ID and how to obtain it? {#what-exp-cloud-id-obtain}

The Experience Cloud ID (ECID for short) is a unique id generated by Adobe Experience Cloud for each individual user in your application/website. ECID is heavily used in all Experience Cloud reports being used to link together information about a specific user accross multiple applications/websites.

If you already have a system in place that provides a visitor ID you should use the same id for the scope of this document.

One way of obtaining the ECID is to use Experience Cloud ID Service. You can use your preferred implementation type, either based on TDM, JS library, server side, direct integration, or native libraries for mobile platforms. For a comprehensive view of available services, libraries, SDK's and implementation guides, please see: <https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/id-service/using/implementation/implementation-guides.html>
 
## What is the benefit of using the Experience Cloud ID in Primetime Authentication? {#benefit-ex-cloud-id}

If you configure our SDKs and Clientless REST API to use your ECID, you will later be able to link data collected by Primetime Authentication into your existing Experience Cloud solutions. This will enable you to better understand your customers journey and experience across all solutions provided by Adobe. 

## How to use the Experience Cloud ID in Primetime Authentication? {#how-to-ex-cloud-id-authn}

After you obtain the ECID (explained above) you need to pass this information to our SDKs and our Clientless REST API. This information will be later passed to our servers on each network call that the SDK makes. The configuration process is different for every SDK as follows:

### JS SDK {#js-sdk}

For JavaScript you need to pass the ECID in a map as the third parameter to the setRequestor call. 

**Usage example:**

```JavaScript
accessEnabler.setRequestor("REQUESTOR_ID", ["ENDPOINT_URL"],
    {
        "visitorID": "THE_ECID_VALUE"
    }
);
```

### iOS/tvOS SDK {#ios-sdk}

For iOS/tvOS SDK there is a dedicated method called setOptions. 

**Usage example:**

```JavaScript
accessEnabler.setOptions(
    [
        "visitorID": "THE_ECID_VALUE"
    ]
);
``` 

### Android/fireTV SDK {#android-sdk}

For Android/fireTV SDK the mechanism is similar to iOS. Just the parameter name is different. The API is documented here. 

**Usage example:**

```JavaScript
String visitor_id = "THE_ECID_VALUE";

HashMap<String, String> options = new HashMap();
options.put("ap_vi",visitor_id);

accessEnabler.setOptions(options);
```

### Clientless API {#clientless-api}

When using Adobe Primetime via it's REST API, the **ECID** value should be sent **on all APIs** as a parameter named **'ap_vi'**. 

**Usage example:**

`GET: https://api.auth.adobe.com/api/v1/authorize?...&ap_vi=THE_ECID_VALUE`
