---
title: Glossary
description: Glossary
exl-id: e64a94f6-7460-4aa8-8d6b-e0553ba1e4ec
---
# Glossary {#glossary}

>[!NOTE]
>
>The content on this page is provided for information purposes only. Usage of this API requires a current license from Adobe. No unauthorized use is permitted.

## AccessEnabler {#accessEnabler}

The client component of Adobe Pass Authentication. Adobe Pass Authentication provides an AccessEnabler library for each supported platform.

## AuthN {#authn}

Used as shorthand for "authentication", as in "AuthN Token", or "AuthN Flow".

    
## AuthN Token{#authn-token}

Authentication token, generated by Adobe Pass Authentication after a user is successfully authenticated with an MVPD. Depending upon the Programmer's integration platform, the token is stored on the user's device or on the Adobe Pass Authentication servers.

## AuthZ {#authz}

Used as shorthand for "authorization", as in "AuthZ Token", or "AuthZ Flow".

## AuthZ Token {#authz-token}

Authorization token, generated by Adobe Pass Authentication after a user has been authorized to view protected content. The AuthZ token is stored on Adobe Pass Authentication servers, and is used to generate a [Short-lived Media Token](#short-lived-token).

## Channel ID (deprecated) {#channel_id}

Former term for Resource ID.

## Clientless API {#clientless-api}

An Adobe Pass Authentication integration solution that employs web services instead of the AccessEnabler client component.

## Device ID {#device-id}

Uniquely identifies a device (such as a phone, tablet, etc.) within Adobe Pass Authentication. This ID is obtained / provided by the Programmer's application.


## Entitlement Flow{#entitlement_flow}

The term used in Adobe Pass Authentication documentation to refer to the entire process of registering a device / user with Adobe Pass Authentication, authenticating a user with an MVPD, authorizing a resource for a user, and logging out a user.


## GUID {#guid}

See [User ID](#user-id).

## IdP {#idp}

Identify Provider; synonymous with MVPD in the context of an MVPD's role in an Adobe Pass Authentication integration. (Customers must verify their identify via their Pay TV Provider's login page.)
  
## Media Token Verifier {#media-token-verifier}

An Adobe-provided library used by Programmers to verify the short-lived media token generated by Adobe Pass Authentication after successful completion of an entitlement flow.

## MVPD {#mvpd}

Multi-channel Video Programming Distributor; synonymous with "Pay TV Provider".

## MVPD ID {#mvpd-id}

See [User ID](#user-id).

## Partner ID {#partner-id}

An identifier that Adobe passes to MVPDs, who use it to identify on whose behalf Adobe Pass Authentication is requesting authentication. Sometimes is it used for configuring their UIs for particular Programmers, sometimes it is the same across all Programmers, it depends upon the needs of the MVPD.

## Pay TV Provider {#pay-tv-provider}

Synonymous with [MVPD](#mvpd).

## Programmer {#programmer}

Synonymous with "content provider", "account", "channel", "service provider", "brand", and so on.

## Proxy MVPD {#proxy-mvpd}

An MVPD that provides identity services for other MVPDs; directly integrated with Adobe Pass Authentication.

## Proxied MVPD {#proxied-mvpd}

An MVPD that does not have a direct integration with the Adobe SP, but is integrated through a Proxy MVPD.

## Requestor ID {#requestor-id}

Uniquely identifies a [Programmer](#programmer) (an account, brand, channel, or property) within Adobe Pass Authentication. This ID is determined between the Programmer and Adobe during the initial setup of the account. On the web, the Requestor ID is associated with a set of whitelisted domains; any calls using an ID from an outside domain will be refused. Programmers also use the Requestor ID for analytics. There is usually only one Requestor ID per Programmer. One additional feature related to the Requestor ID is that the Programmer must provide Adobe with a public certificate, as the setRequestor API call expects encrypted data to be sent, used to authenticate the Programmer in the Adobe Pass Authentication system.

## Resource ID {#resource-id}

A string or mRSS resource that identifies a [Programmer](#programmer) to MVPDs. It is agreed upon between the Programmer and MVPDs; Adobe Pass Authentication passes the Resource ID through untouched, so it must be the same for all MVPDs. A Programmer can use multiple resource IDs as long as the MVPDs are aware of what each ID represents.

## SessionGUID {#sessionGUID} 

See [User ID](#user-id).

## Short-lived Media Token {#short-lived-token}

This token is generated by Adobe Pass Authentication upon the successful completion of the entitlement process for a particular user. The token is passed to the Programmer, who uses the Adobe Pass Authentication Token Verifier on the Short-lived Media Token to verify the security of the entitlement process.

## Smart Device {#smart-device}

A term used throughout the Adobe Pass Authentication documentation to refer to set-top boxes, game consoles, and smart TVs. These are devices that have networking capabilities but are not capable of rendering web pages.

## SP{#sp}

Service Provider; this usually refers to the *role* of SP, played by Adobe Pass Authentication, acting on behalf of a Programmer in an integration with an [MVPD](#mvpd).

## Temp Pass {#temp-pass} 

A feature that lets Programmers provide temporary free access to pay content. Access is per-Requestor, for a Programmer-specified period of time.

## TTL {#ttl}

Time To Live. This is the specified length of time that a token is valid.

## TVE {#tve}

Television Everywhere.

## User ID {#user-id} 

Uniquely identifies the user of a Programmer's app, but orginates from the MVPD. Available in different forms for different use cases. See [Understanding User IDs in the Programmer Overview](/help/authentication/programmer-overview.md#user-ids).

## Allowed list {#whitelist}

A list of domains that are designated as legitimate for the purposes of communicating with Adobe Pass Authentication.

## XSTS Token {#xsts-token}

A security token issued by Microsoft for Xbox console app development, used in Xbox/Adobe Pass Authentication integration.
